server/README.md, before:

# Spectrum Server

A Node.js server for Spectrum.chat, built with Express.js, GraphQL and RethinkDB.

## Structure

This server follows a GraphQL-first philosophy. That means we design the GraphQL schema first and then start implementing business logic. This is great because it gives us a clear separation of concerns (business logic vs. schema), and it's how Facebook recommends to use GraphQL.

We use [`graphql-tools`](http://dev.apollodata.com/tools/graphql-tools/index.html) which lets us use the GraphQL schema language to design our schema. This schema written in the schema language is then combined with our resolvers (which live somewhere else) using `graphql-tools`, which outputs our finished schema that's then used.

### Folder Setup

This folder setup was inspired by a bunch of open (and some closed) source projects @mxstbr looked at before embarking on the journey of building this. It seems to work well, even for big projects, but nothing here is set in stone and we're always open for new ideas and discussions.

This is the current folder structure annotated:

```sh
server/
├── migrations     # Migrations for seeding the database with some initial data
├── models         # Handle talking to the database
├── mutations      # Mutation     resolvers
├── queries        # Query        resolvers
├── subscriptions  # Subscription resolvers
├── types          # The schema, split up into many smaller parts
│   └── scalars.js # The custom scalars we use in our schema and their resolvers
├── README.md
├── index.js       # Runs the actual servers (GraphQL + WebSocket for subscriptions)
└── schema.js      # Combines the types from types/ and the resolvers together with graphql-tools
```

## Things to note

### Keep resolvers as small as possible

What we mean by this is that resolvers should (for the most part) only be a mapping between a certain path and the model function that takes care of it. Make sure the least amount of business logic possible lives in resolvers. (these are reminiscent of Controllers in a traditional MVC setup)

### Error management

We use [`graphql-errors`](https://github.com/kadirahq/graphql-errors) to mask internal errors in production. (GraphQL schema errors are still visible of course) Instead of seeing "Database limit exceeded, please upgrade your account xyz.", the user only sees "Internal Error: asdf123-asdf-asdf-asdf1235" (where `"asdf123-asdf-asdf-asdf1235"` is a UUID that helps us reference that error to a stacktrace) which means no sensitive information is leaked.

Sometimes you want to show the user an error though, for example for permissions. In that case you have to use the `UserError` from `graphql-errors`, which will not be masked:

```JS
const { UserError } = require('graphql-errors');

// The user will see this full error message
throw new UserError('You do not have permission to access field xyz!')
```

Commit message:

Document server setup
- Document setting up a local env
- Change db npm scripts to better names

server/README.md, after:

# Spectrum Server

A Node.js server for Spectrum.chat, built with Express.js, GraphQL and RethinkDB.

## Setup

```sh
# Install RethinkDB (note, you only need to do this one time)
brew install rethinkdb
# Start rethinkdb
rethinkdb
# In a separate tab, seed the db with some initial data
yarn run db:seed
# ⚠️ To empty the database (e.g. if there's faulty data) run yarn run db:drop
# Start the server in development mode (restarts on any change)
yarn run dev:server
# To start the server in production mode do yarn run start:server
```

## Structure

This server follows a GraphQL-first philosophy. That means we design the GraphQL schema first and then start implementing business logic. This is great because it gives us a clear separation of concerns (business logic vs. schema), and it's how Facebook recommends to use GraphQL.

We use [`graphql-tools`](http://dev.apollodata.com/tools/graphql-tools/index.html) which lets us use the GraphQL schema language to design our schema. This schema written in the schema language is then combined with our resolvers (which live somewhere else) using `graphql-tools`, which outputs our finished schema that's then used.

### Folder Setup

This folder setup was inspired by a bunch of open (and some closed) source projects @mxstbr looked at before embarking on the journey of building this. It seems to work well, even for big projects, but nothing here is set in stone and we're always open for new ideas and discussions.

This is the current folder structure annotated:

```sh
server/
├── migrations     # Migrations for seeding the database with some initial data
├── models         # Handle talking to the database
├── mutations      # Mutation     resolvers
├── queries        # Query        resolvers
├── subscriptions  # Subscription resolvers
├── types          # The schema, split up into many smaller parts
│   └── scalars.js # The custom scalars we use in our schema and their resolvers
├── README.md
├── index.js       # Runs the actual servers (GraphQL + WebSocket for subscriptions)
└── schema.js      # Combines the types from types/ and the resolvers together with graphql-tools
```

## Things to note

### Keep resolvers as small as possible

What we mean by this is that resolvers should (for the most part) only be a mapping between a certain path and the model function that takes care of it. Make sure the least amount of business logic possible lives in resolvers. (these are reminiscent of Controllers in a traditional MVC setup)

### Error management

We use [`graphql-errors`](https://github.com/kadirahq/graphql-errors) to mask internal errors in production. (GraphQL schema errors are still visible of course) Instead of seeing "Database limit exceeded, please upgrade your account xyz.", the user only sees "Internal Error: asdf123-asdf-asdf-asdf1235" (where `"asdf123-asdf-asdf-asdf1235"` is a UUID that helps us reference that error to a stacktrace) which means no sensitive information is leaked.

Sometimes you want to show the user an error though, for example for permissions. In that case you have to use the `UserError` from `graphql-errors`, which will not be masked:

```JS
const { UserError } = require('graphql-errors');

// The user will see this full error message
throw new UserError('You do not have permission to access field xyz!')
```
